# Text Processing with Python

###### Relevant Files
> [a1.py](a1_kar180005.py)

## What
A program to transform an obsolete csv file into a usable format (pickle).

The program reads in an input file in the old csv format and processes each line. Each line gets parsed and the individual data elements are extracted. Each element undergoes a transformation process to match the new desired formatting. Any data element that is incorrect is either automatically corrected or the user is prompted to manually enter a new valid element. Once every line is read, the python dictionary object gets stored in a pickle file. The pickle file is then read and the dictionary is reserialized in order to verify that the pickle file was saved correctly. The information of every employee is then displayed to the user to provide a visual confirmation. 

## How to Run
1. Ensure Python 3.X is installed
2. Perform the following command in a terminal:

Windows/Mac/Linux:
```
python3 a1_kar180005.py <path/to/data.csv>
```

## Python Text Processing
Text processing was vital to completing this assignment. It allowed me to easily transform the data when necessary. Python text processing is among the best in modern programming languages. By default, Python provides many different methods to perform transformations on strings. Additionally, they are chainable which keeps things neat. Realistically, I have no gripes with how Python handles text processing. The only issue I have with it is the fact that Python itself is dynamically typed.

## What I Learned
The main thing that I learned from this assignment was the pickle file format. I had never encountered this file format previously so it was a new experience. I also learned how to perform regex operations on strings using Python. I have used regex in the past on different languages, however, this was my first time trying it on Python. 