# Word Guessing Game

###### Relevant Files
> [a3.py](a3_kar180005.py)
> [sample.txt](anat19.txt)

## What
A program that uses words from a piece of text as input for a guessing game. 

The program reads in the given text file and first calculates the lexical diversity of the contents. The text is then preprocessed where only certain candidate words are chosen for the guessing game. The top 50 most frequent candidate words are selected and are used as the potential words to guess.

After the text processing is done, the game begins. It first selects a random word from the top 50 and prints out a '_' for every letter. The user is then prompted to guess a letter. If the letter is in the word then the _ is replaced with the guess and the user gains a point and a life. If not, then the user loses a life. The game continuous until the user runs out of lives or enters a '!' as their guess. Once the game is over, the user is presented with their total wins and score. 

## How to Run
1. Ensure Python 3.X is installed
2. Perform the following command in a terminal:

Windows/Mac/Linux:
```
python3 a3_kar180005.py <path/to/input.txt>
```

## Lexical Diversity
Lexical diversity is a measure of how many different words appear in a piece of text. It can be considered as the ratio of unique words to the total number of words within the text. 

```
LD = UW / TW

Where:
  LD: Lexical Diversity
  UW: # of Unique Words
  TW: Total # of Words
```

In this case, the input file is read and the text is tokenized. The number of tokens is TW. The tokens are then lowercased and put into a set. The size of the set is UW. 

## Preprocessing
The input text needs to be preprocessed in order to be able to use it for the guessing game. 

The text is tokenized and only tokens that are alpha characters, non stopwords, and longer than 5 characters are accepted. The tokens are then lemmatized and tagged with their part of speech. From there, only tokens that are nouns are accepted. From the set of nouns, the top 50 most common ones become the candidate words for the guessing game. 